MRN: 346236
A 50-year-old male was admitted to a fever clinic on Jan 21, 2020, with symptoms of fever, chills, cough, fatigue and shortness of breath.
He reported a travel history to Wuhan Jan 8–12, and that he had initial symptoms of mild chills and dry cough on Jan 14 (day 1 of illness) but did not see a doctor and kept working until Jan 21.
Chest x-ray showed multiple patchy shadows in both lungs, and a throat swab sample was taken.
On Jan 22 (day 9 of illness), the Beijing Centers for Disease Control (CDC) confirmed by reverse real-time PCR assay that the patient had COVID-19.
He was immediately admitted to the isolation ward and received supplemental oxygen through a face mask.
He was given interferon alfa-2b (5 million units twice daily, atomisation inhalation) and lopinavir plus ritonavir (500 mg twice daily, orally) as antiviral therapy, and moxifloxacin (0·4 g once daily, intravenously) to prevent secondary infection.
Given the serious shortness of breath and hypoxaemia, methylprednisolone (80 mg twice daily, intravenously) was administered to attenuate lung inflammation.
After receiving medication, his body temperature reduced from 39·0 to 36·4 °C. However, his cough, dyspnoea, and fatigue did not improve.
On day 12 of illness, after initial presentation, chest x-ray showed progressive infiltrate and diffuse gridding shadow in both lungs.
He refused ventilator support in the intensive care unit repeatedly because he suffered from claustrophobia; therefore, he received high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygen therapy (60% concentration, flow rate 40 L/min).
On day 13 of illness, the patient's symptoms had still not improved, but oxygen saturation remained above 95%.
In the afternoon of day 14 of illness, his hypoxaemia and shortness of breath worsened.
Despite receiving HFNC oxygen therapy (100% concentration, flow rate 40 L/min), oxygen saturation values decreased to 60%, and the patient had sudden cardiac arrest.
He was immediately given invasive ventilation, chest compression, and adrenaline injection.
Unfortunately, the rescue was not successful, and he died at 18:31 (Beijing time).
Biopsy samples were taken from lung, liver, and heart tissue of the patient.
Histological examination showed bilateral diffuse alveolar damage with cellular fibromyxoid exudates.
The right lung showed evident desquamation of pneumocytes and hyaline membrane formation, indicating acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
The left lung tissue displayed pulmonary oedema with hyaline membrane formation, suggestive of early-phase ARDS.
Interstitial mononuclear inflammatory infiltrates, dominated by lymphocytes, were seen in both lungs.
Multinucleated syncytial cells with atypical enlarged pneumocytes characterised by large nuclei, amphophilic granular cytoplasm, and prominent nucleoli were identified in the intra-alveolar spaces, showing viral cytopathic-like changes.
No obvious intranuclear or intracytoplasmic viral inclusions were identified.
