MRN: 356567
On February 2, 2020, a 28-year-old female, who was 30 weeks pregnant, presented to a fever clinic of Suzhou Municipal  Hospital  with  intermittent  fever  for  one  week.
She  disclosed  that  she  had  returned  to  Suzhou  on January 24 after traveling to visit family in Wuhan 3 weeks ago.
Given the patient’s travel history and fever, two throat  swab  samples  were  collected and tested negative  for SARS-CoV-2  with the  Chinese  Center  for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommended Kit (BioGerm, Shanghai, China), following WHO  guidelines  for quantitative RT-PCR.
Chest computed tomography (CT) scan on February 4 demonstrated left-sided subpleural patchy  consolidation  and  right-sided  ground-glass  opacities.
Then  she  went  into  isolation  at  that hospital.
On  February  6,  the  second  SARS-CoV-2  RT-PCR  results  of  her  sputum  came  back  positive,  so  she was  then  transferred  to  the  intensive  care  unit  (ICU)  in  a  negative  pressure  isolation  room  of  theAffiliated Infectious Hospital of Soochow University, the designated medical center for COVID-19 in Suzhou.On admission, the physical examination revealed a body temperature of 36.2°C, blood pressure of 95/64 mmHg, pulse  of  92  beats  per  minute,  respiratory  rate  of  22  breaths  per  minute,  and  oxygen  saturation  of  97%  with Venturi mask at 5 liters perminute of oxygen.
Lung auscultation revealed little rhonchi over the left lower lung field.
Other  laboratory   findings  included  a  leukocyte  count  of  10.60*109/L,  neutrophils  of  9.14*109/L, lymphocytes  of  0.86*109/L,  albumin  of  24.6  g/L,  C-reactive  protein  of  19.6  mg/L,  D-dimer  of  840  ug/L, procalcitonin (PCT) of 0.288 ng/ml, lactate dehydrogenase  (LDH) of 544 U/L, N-terminal  probrain natriuretic peptide  (NT-proBNP)  of  318  pg/ml.
Levels  of  creatinine  and  aminotransferase  were  within  normal  limits.
A fetal  ultrasound  revealed  a  normally  intrauterine  fetus  with  normal  anatomy  of  approximately  30  weeks  of gestational age.
Since SARS-CoV-2 is a newly identified virus, it remains unknown whether the viral shedding during delivery occurs  or  the  vertical  transmission  exists.
Several  multidisciplinary  consultations  were  performed,  concluding that given the current situation especially the CT scan and low levels of lymphocytes and albumin, the patient’s condition might be deteriorated at any time, and she was at risk of preterm birth, so emergency scenarios for her were  developed.
Treatment  with  Arbidol  (0.2g administered orally  every  8  hours),  Lopinavir  and  Ritonavir Tablets  (400/100mg  administered  orally  every  8  hours),  Cefoperazone  Sodium  and  Sulbactam  Sodium  (3.0gadministered intravenously every 8 hours), and Human Serum Albumin (20g administered intravenously every day)  were  initiated,  dexamethasone and  magnesium  sulphate  as  prophylaxis  for  the  fetus  were  given  and  an emergency  cesarean  section  was  prepared.
On  hospital  day  3  morning  (February  8),  a  repeated  chest  CT  scan showed bilateral   multiple   ground-glass   opacities,   a   finding   consistent   with   severe   atypical pneumonia.
In the afternoon,  this patient  had disappeared fetal  movement and no  variability of  fetal heart rate monitoring, and no improvement was made on maximal ventilator support for four hours.
After  a  multidisciplinary  consultation  was  performed  and  informed  consent  was  obtained,  an  emergency cesarean  section  under  combined  spinal-epidural  anesthesia  was  performed  with  an  estimated  blood  loss  of 200ml  in  a  designated  negative  pressure  isolation  room  and  all  personnel  involved  wore  protective  gear including gown, N 95 mask, eye protection and gloves.A preterm male infant weighing 1.83 kg was delivered uneventfully, with Apgar scores of 9 and 10 at 1 and 5 minutes, respectively.
And he  was kept in the isolation ICU of the  neonatal nursery for observation without any contact  with his mother after birth.
The  newborn was given  formula  instead  of  breast  milk  ever  since.
During  the  delivery,  samples  of  amniotic  fluid,  placenta, umbilical cord blood, gastric juice and throat swabs of the infant were obtained for SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR tests, and all results were negative.
On day 3 after cesarean section (February 11), RT-PCR analyses of the  neonatal throat swab and stool samples were negative.
On February 15 and 17, throat swab RT-PCR tests of the mother and  the  infant  were  negative.
Three  chest  CT  scans  of  the  mother  on  February  12,  15  and  18,  respectively, demonstrated resolution of infiltrates of both lung fields.
All healthcare workers in contact with the  infant during his delivery  and subsequent care  had remained asymptomatic.
The  patient and her infant had an uneventful postpartum and neonatal course.
